I slowed it down too much on the way
down. Um I think you did a lot of good
things. Let's look back.
I understand the frustration.
Let's try it again. Really? Let's try it
again. Bench press with Maureen. Let's
go.
>> Maureen is very very strong and it's
been a while since you've been here.
Last time you were here, we wanted to
bench press 100 kg. Yeah, and I failed.
And she failed, but
it's been a few months and training's
been going great.
And she was due to do what today? 3 by 2
on 95. And I thought why do you 3 by 2
on 95 when you can redeem yourself and
hit that 100 kg again? 100%. And if it
doesn't go to plan, then we will go back
to the plan. That's what we do sometimes
to be honest with you. You know, we're
coaches, but every now and then we kind
of go off plan, but it's calculated. And
the reason why it's calculated is
Maureen is going to compete in how many
weeks?
>> 8 weeks. So this is kind of the time
where you want to start getting really
specific with your training. So she's
going to be doing bench press only. Mhm.
And the goal is what?
>> 105. Okay. So therefore, you know, doing
singles in a calculated way. So we're
going to show you how it's going to be
calculated. I want I want her to bench
press 200 kg today if it's there, but
what we're going to do is intelligently
warm up to the numbers and follow the
rule which is you need to earn the right
to add weight to the bar. I'm only going
to put 100 kilos on if I know it's
coming up.
Sounds good.
>> Deal? Let's go. Good. And if that comes
up easily,
we go up again. All right, so that
you're going to see how we do it. You're
going to see how we warm up to that. And
while Maureen is the star of today's
show, I'm going to be deadlifting in the
background
and you're going to see me warming up
for my light stiff-legged deadlifts.
There's a difference between
stiff-legged deadlifts and RDLs.
Everyone gets upset with this, but I
don't care and I'm just talking more
about it because I like people getting
upset. The way that I do a stiff-legged
deadlift is a dead stop and up. Dead
stop and up. And the way I do an RDL is
we don't stop at the bottom. We focus on
the eccentric portion. And if you get
upset about that, then that's not my
problem. But that's what I'm going to be
doing in the background and you're going
to see me I don't know what weight I'm
going to get. I'm not going to go very
heavy. Like I said, Maureen's the star
of the show and we're going to show how
she warms up and hits 100 kg and maybe
even more. We're on. Let's do it. Let's
go. This is my pre-workout. I'll tell
you who got me onto this. This is Bulk
by Transparent Labs. Whenever I go to
Iceland and work with Thor, that's what
he takes. And it's like, you know,
that's when I get the opportunity to do
everything that Thor does and I train
very well when I'm with Thor. And this
is what he uses. So it's like, you know
what, I'm going to start using the same
thing. So that's what we're going to be
doing.
Times three, isn't it? Mhm. I'm going to
do half a scoop because I have half the
muscles that you do.
I don't know about that. I don't know
about that. Go on, give us a flex.
Maureen, that's not half the muscle you
do
>> [laughter]
>> She out-angled me, I promise.
But I'll give you I'll give you half
anyway. Use the filtered water. This is
the proper way to have pre-workout with
a spoon and a glass. Yeah, we don't raw
dog it. [laughter]
You know how they dry scoop it?
>> Oh, no. No, I don't dry scoop it.
Do you want some drink it?
Really?
Do you think Do you think something
funny's going to happen?
Look at the technique here. Check it
out. So, you know, as you can see
Maureen's going to go for So the number,
let's just say it's 100 kg.
She's starting with an empty barbell and
she before she did this, she did a whole
bunch of other shoulder non-specific
exercises
to warm herself up so she feels good.
Um but that is a very lovely technique
which we are going to Learn from the
best. Oh, thank you.
I also learned from the best.
As you guys know, if you follow my
channel, I learned it from Kirill
Sarychev taught me and that's the
technique that I teach everybody and
that's the technique that she suits very
very well. What are your increments? So
we go empty barbell. What's your first
plate? We'll go 40 next.
>> 40 and then
50.
>> Yeah. 40 50 60 70 80. We go 90 or 85? I
reckon 85.
>> Yeah. Okay. So as we get closer to the
top, then we start reducing. So with the
warm-ups, we didn't really calculate
percentages. It's kind of just how it
feels. So 40 kg is logical like that's
20 kg that's super easy. We go up in you
know, 10% jumps and then as it gets
closer to
Well, there you go. 80% that's when
we're going to reduce it to 5% jumps and
we'll go 85 90 95 and then that's what
we're going to use to assess where we go
from there. I've got to do stiff-legged
deadlifts
and I've got to
get my equipment, you know.
I take too long to just think about life
before I even get started. I'm going to
do So when I like to warm up, I do a lot
of non-specifics. I'm going to do a
bunch of leg press, back extensions and
then my last time I did stiff-legged
deadlifts, I was doing kind of like 180
for sets of eight. So I would say I
don't know. I'm going to do around 200
kg today. This is volume. So this isn't
a the top set back down set method. Not
always. This is me doing some volume
work in the background.
Sometimes
it calls for low volume and heavy loads
and sometimes, especially with
deadlifts, I really like phases of
lighter loads and higher volume. So when
I say higher volume, it'll still less
total sets. So it'll probably be two to
three sets. If I'm not being lazy, I'll
do three sets of eight on 200 kg. I
think that's a good volume session. And
then after that, something that I love
to do is
some quadricep work. So on my squat day,
I like to do back down work with
posterior chain. And on my deadlift day,
quadriceps. And the reason for that is
because that's how I get my frequency of
two times in that muscle group per week.
So if I only do one whole squat day and
do tons and tons volume on squat day,
then I've got seven whole days to
recover. It's better to do a little bit
less volume of quadriceps on one day and
do it more times during the week. Today
is kind of like my lighter day because
I'm focusing on squats at the moment.
But let's see how we go. This is kind of
week one of this program as well. So my
that's kind of like my loose plan.
That's the way that I like to do it. 3
by 8 on 200. If that's super easy, maybe
I'll do more than that. I'm going to
unrack you, okay? So you get used to me
from the beginning.
Maureen held her breath from start to
finish. She's not breathing right now.
And then she exhaled on completion of
the entire set.
That was good. So you know, obviously
you don't need me to unrack that weight.
However, she will need someone to unrack
100 kg. And instead of me waiting until
she actually needs it, I'm going to
start making sure that she's used to how
I do it and vice versa. How did that
feel? Felt great. Okay, good.
All right, 50 kilos. Plates.
Do we need bumpers? Yeah. It looks like
there's more weight when you use the
bumpers. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to use
bumpers as well today.
>> it. Feeling great. Uh 6 hours sleep, so
could be a bit touchy today, but we got
this.
How many reps?
What do you reckon? Three to five? Yeah,
let's go.
Let's do five reps and then we'll start
reducing reducing reducing.
Good.
>> [snorts]
>> Very good. I'm going to ask you a
question. Mhm.
Why bench press?
Cuz it feels good to have a strong upper
body. I think women are notoriously weak
in like as women we're notoriously weak
in our upper bodies and it feels badass
[clears throat] to like push heavy [__]
away. I mean, I know that.
But I actually work with a lot of women
and I've only come across a smaller
percentage of my females that want to
emphasize the bench press. A lot of the
women that I work with would probably
de-emphasize that and say I'd prefer to
have a lower body dominant physique.
>> Mhm. Like I said, I get a small
percentage that come out like, nah, I
want to bench. What are your thoughts on
that? Do you train women with bench
press all of your girls? 100%. Like I
try to get all of my clients under a
bench press if they're up for it. Yeah.
>> Most of them are. Just so you know, so
this is Maureen, obviously. She runs a
very successful female only business
training women between the ages of 30
and 60, really. Yeah. And what are their
main goals when they come to you? Do
they want to be powerlifters? Do they
want to
>> No. Right. Okay.
>> to get They just want to be strong,
confident. They want to build muscle and
they want to age like a badass. Okay.
And what type of exercise would you say
that most of them would do?
Before they come to the program, a lot
of them are doing more like hit classes.
They dabbled in lifting, but they're not
lifting in a structured way. And then we
introduce them to lifting. Yeah. And
when you say structured way, what kind
of structure would you give?
Basically like building it around like
your main lifts. You know, squat bench
deadlift. Focusing on structural balance
like three to four sessions a week,
something like that.
>> barbell work? My goal is to get every
client under a barbell when they're
ready.
>> Yeah. Right. And does it matter the age?
What if someone's What if someone's 60
years old? Do they work with barbells as
well with you?
They don't start there, but like they'll
[__] end up there
if I have any say in it and if they're
enjoying it. What's the biggest problems
that you see with training with females?
I think it's a lack of confidence. Like
so many women just feel like, oh, that's
not for me. I don't know how to do that.
Maybe they have injuries and they think
lifting is going to be bad for it. So
it's like re-educating that it's like,
you don't need to be confident. You just
need to start at the start and up to it.
So, I've heard I've heard that females
should consider doing weights to avoid
things like bone mineral density loss
because of things like menopause. When
you lose estrogen, that's kind of one of
the negative side effects. And I've
heard some very very well-known people
say things like you need to properly
lift like in the 80% and plus. Now, I've
got my thoughts on this, but I'd love to
know your thoughts on this. 80% and plus
is probably like think about what you
can do 80% and that's kind of like six
reps and less. One to six rep range.
Today I'm doing eights because I don't
want to lift that heavy. So, what are
your thoughts on training women with the
one to six rep range if they've never
even touched a barbell?
>> You don't start there. It's like we need
to build up to that over It'll take
every client a different amount of time,
but like at least probably 4 months of
like really refining the technique.
>> Mhm. And then we work up to that when
the client is ready, right? It's like
every client is going to be on a
different journey. I think everyone
should train in that rep range, but no
one should start there.
>> Mhm. Okay, I think that's a pretty good
point. Uh and that's how I think
training you, who you know, I don't
think you've got a bone mineral density
problem.
>> not.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm pretty sure that we're not even
close to that, but that was never our
concern. Your concern was to do a one
rep max over 100 kg from the day that I
met you, right? So, it's kind of like to
do that, what's my strategy with you?
Let's not think about bone density. My
strategy with someone who wants to come
to me and get as strong as possible for
a max is like, "Okay, we're not going to
max on day one. We're not even going to
do less than five reps on day one
because that's too heavy and you're not
coordinated yet as a beginner to be able
to shift those loads. So, I'm going to
start you on very very basic fundamental
movements. Maybe start with higher
volume so we can do lighter loads, work
towards building muscle, building
coordination before we start thinking
about going in those 80% plus rep
ranges, which is one to six reps. That's
damn heavy. Mhm. Okay, so now you're
saying that women to avoid bone mineral
density loss need to be lifting that
heavy. It's the same strategy. What an
odd thing. Yeah. So, anyway, you get my
point here. The point is great
recommendation to lift super heavy. I
think it's super important, but it's
pretty hard to do that. It's a skill to
be able to do that. And you're giving
your girls 4 months to kind of build the
coordination and the strength to be able
to start considering even getting close
to that rep range. Yeah. Yeah, okay. I
like that. 4 months. That's really good
advice. 4 months and how long are your
phases whenever you're doing They're
4-week phases. 4-week phases. That means
you're going to take them through four
different phases of like coordination
and muscle building and higher rep stuff
before we start considering very very
heavy. Yeah. Now, your introduction of
very very heavy, what would you say is a
good rep range? So, we we basically take
them down to like a 4 by 5 or and then a
4 by 4. Right. And then if they're if
they're a little bit more advanced and
they've got the hang of it, then we
might go down to like threes or twos for
like their training morale to show them
what they're capable of. And would you
max out someone in their 60s? If their
technique is on point and their
confidence is there and I've seen them
lift, then yes. Yeah, you know, I
commonly get that question when I'm
teaching this bench press technique.
People go, "Oh, but that's for you good
people." It's like, "Right, I think if
you've got the mobility in the
coordination to be able to achieve this,
it's for anyone, right?"
>> It's the safest, right? I believe so.
Okay, so your 60 kilos next and I'm
going to start warming up on my
deadlifts.
I'm probably going to do multiple sets
of this because
after one set I'm probably going to feel
a little bit
stiff still. All right, you ready? This
is a stiff-legged deadlift. Dead stop.
Stiff legs.
So, this is my normal deadlift. So,
that's a conventional deadlift. This is
a stiff-legged deadlift.
So, there's still some knee bend.
And then we focus on the concentric and
then
very little focus placed on the the
lowering phase.
So, dead stop, concentric and bang. Now,
the difference between that and a
Romanian deadlift is I can start at the
same position,
but then I focus on the
the lowering phase, get a full stretch
and drive. Now,
I'm not necessarily touching the ground.
It doesn't matter if I touch the ground
as long as it's not a a bounce. So, you
can sometimes lightly tap the ground for
a Romanian, but there's focus on the
eccentric portion.
Stiff legs.
Boom.
And relax.
Boom. Relax, which is
better for
carryover to a conventional deadlift,
which we also have to start from a dead
stop. But the Romanian deadlift is also
great for building strength, but that's
the difference between the two. 3 2 then
1 1 1 1.
>> Yeah.
Do you think I'm in an okay position
with my eye line?
>> I think you're a little bit far down the
bench. Come back again. Bring your feet
back. Come back. Bring your feet back
about an inch. Good.
Slide. Good. Yeah. Bar in line with your
mouth. Good.
Three reps.
Scaps hard.
Good.
Now, I'm going to give you some of my
thoughts whenever I'm getting someone to
go heavy. In competition you need to
bench press with a pause.
And the pause isn't any set amount of
time. It's when the barbell is
motionless and it's quite subjective.
It's when the referee thinks it's
motionless.
So, there's a few strategies to doing
this. One is a light pause, which I
probably teach to beginners actually is
a light pause because when people do a
heavy pause, which is where you kind of
like rest the whole weight on the chest,
you're turning muscles off to do that,
which I do. I like to do, but I'm
certain I have an understanding of which
muscles to keep on.
And that's kind of something that I
think is a better technique.
The reason why I believe it's a better
technique is because when you want that
barbell to be motionless,
if you're doing a one rep max load and
you're trying to do a light pause,
you're using those muscles to control
that weight. It's a huge isometric
contraction
and you need to keep that one rep max
load completely still.
Of course it's not impossible, but I
think
whenever I see people do that,
it takes longer for the press command to
come.
Whereas a lot of the best bench presses
these days go heavy pause. They just
dump it on the chest. Boom.
And the bar comes to a dead stop and
then they press.
That's my preferred, but it is a skill
and the skill is knowing which muscles
to keep on while you're pausing. And
I'll tell you which muscles to keep on.
It's heels down
and shoulders back and down. So, it's
kind of like the posterior chain. That's
what we keep on and we turn off our pecs
and our triceps and our pushing muscles.
So, they are resting before we get the
press command and boom.
Now, in training, let's not think about
it. While we're doing the heaviest
weight, I want touch your chest and just
get it up. And then we're going to do
back down work and then we're going to
focus on all of that stuff. I know a lot
of people say specificity and if you're
training to be a powerlifter, you need
to do the exact competition standards.
And I agree, but at the same time I
think it's easier to learn the pause
once you have the strength than to learn
the strength once you have the pause.
Checks out.
When we're doing these things, it's like
and every time I've competed, I kind of
just go heavy. Just go heavy. Of course
I do lighter work with pauses so I
understand the technique, but whenever
I'm in competition, if I know if I have
the confidence that I've pressed that
weight before, you know, 99% of the
chance of the times you add a pause in
and unable to press that exact same
weight. So, that's what we're going to
go with now.
>> Sweet. Right? So, you're going to be
doing So, the pauses that you're doing,
I really like while the weight is light.
So, it's kind of like just down, up,
down, up. It is a kind of a pause.
It's probably not the same pause that
you're going to get in competition. Like
they're going to they're going to want
it a little bit longer than that, which
is totally fine, but that's what I think
is the standard bench press. Is a bit of
a stop and then a numb rather rather
than a It's not a complete touch and go
what you're doing, right? It's a kind of
sink drive, sink drive, which is the
same mechanism as what you're going to
be doing in the top set. Sweet. Yeah, we
just did a seminar, Clean Health Life
seminar. So, it was 2 days of
presenting.
Great weekend and last night was the
kind of farewell dinner. So, normally I
go to bed at 9:00 p.m., but last night
was bed
time My bed time was 11:00 p.m. And you
were there as well. So, you normally
sleep a little bit longer, but you went
to bed at past your bed time as well.
>> Very late.
>> so for both of us we've kind of like
under recovered, but no, it's all good.
>> this. It's all good. Now, here's
something else.
Have you heard of Jim Shway?
No. Well, now you have.
>> [snorts]
>> You can't put
>> [gasps]
>> metal plates on with bumpers.
>> Do you have 5 kilo bumpers? It's bad Jim
Shway. Oh,
[__] There's a difference. If you know,
you know. Good.
I think this is last one where we did
two reps.
>> Okay.
So, let's have a look. She slides her
head back so that she can bring her feet
back. If she was just to set her head up
first, she wouldn't be able to bring her
feet back as far. Bringing the feet back
further, so further behind your hips or
as far back as you can, increases
tension on your hip flexors. So, there's
a lot of tightness here, which is going
to increase your arch. Okay, so head off
the bench, get the feet in place and
she's going to push her heels downwards.
Now, her heels don't touch the ground,
but there's downwards pressure from
start to finish. With that downwards
pressure she then slides under the bar
till her eyes are behind the bar.
Barbell in line with mouth. From here
she focuses on pulling her shoulder
blades back and down, taking a big
breath and on her breath
Beautiful.
Perfection.
Very good.
Okay. Very good. Your grip.
Now, here's the Come check out the lines
here, Moystee.
Here's the rules in a powerlifting
competition. That's the outer rings on a
powerlifting bar. You are not allowed to
hold the bar outside of that. For me,
that's where I hold it. For you, where
do you hold it? So, I put my ring finger
on that bar. So, you're a little bit
narrower. Yeah.
>> Yeah, but remember I used to be like
here.
>> It it it closer, yeah.
>> Yeah, we had to totally change my
technique.
>> so did I, actually. So, when I first
started doing wide grip bench press, I
couldn't like I was weaker out there.
So, I was kind of like pinky on that
line.
And then gradually gradually went wider
and wider. And as Maureen said, she
started a little bit closer, but now
she's kind of going slightly out. Now,
here's two things that I say with how
wide you should be able to go. Firstly,
the width of the bar that you hold is
more dependent on your shoulder mobility
than your limb length. Okay? So, some
people that have very very long arms use
a closer grip because it's uncomfortable
to go super wide like that. Now, you've
got incredible mobility and
coordination, actually. Um so, the
ability like when you see people able to
achieve thoracic extension and position
their shoulders in, you know, downwards
and down and back like this. Um a lot of
people it just doesn't gel like that.
So, those are the people if you can't
get that position that Maureen's getting
with her arch. Remember, the arch that
we're trying to achieve is with her
upper back. The lower back naturally
arches on everybody, but it's this part
that I really want to achieve that
extension because when you arch back
like that, the shoulders naturally come
back and down, right? So, if you're not
arching, the shoulders won't do that.
And if the shoulders aren't doing that,
it'll feel terrible to hold it with the
wide grip. So, if you lack the mobility
to arch, don't go wide, but you can
arch. You've got great mobility, but
still it's not quite comfortable as wide
as possible. So, wide as possible Some
people think go as wide as possible
because it's a shorter range of motion,
um and that's where you're going to have
a better advantage. Might be a shorter
range of motion, but the muscle
contraction isn't strong there. Why is
the muscle contraction not strong there?
Yet? Well, check this out. So, that's
the pec muscle. The pec attaches to the
front of this upper arm bone, which is a
humerus. It's the weakest when it's at
its fully lengthened position. So, to
get the pec at a fully lengthened
position, we need to flare the elbows
and pull the arms back. That's how we
stretch the pecs, right? Stretch
position is actually the weakest
contractile position, and this is where
you see people tear their pecs when they
do 1 RMs and their elbows are flared and
their hands are wide, that's because the
pec is in the weakest contractile
position. So, how do I make that
slightly stronger? One, bring the grip
in, which allows the elbows to tuck a
little bit. Right? So, that's going to
allow us So, yes, it's a shorter range
of motion. However, we're putting the
pec muscle in its mid-range, which is a
stronger contraction.
Here's another way of getting it to its
mid-range is arch as much as you can.
So, therefore the bar doesn't touch that
far down. We're not traveling as far.
So, therefore we're able to achieve our
mid-range by arching more
and keeping our elbows in the exact
position. Now, either [clears throat]
way, shortening the range of motion can
be an advantage. However, in my opinion,
it's one of those things that we need to
build the tolerance to, and it takes
time. It took me many years to be able
to hold the barbell as wide as my
mobility allows. And with Maureen, it's
gradually inched out. Mhm. And now
you're at your ring finger, but I think
it looks good. No, I don't think there's
any urgency. Yeah, I don't think you
need to go go wider than that. And um
yeah, so there's a bit on grip width.
Good.
All right, next up.
Now, we're going to reduce
the incremental increases. We're going
to go 85. Sounds good. Good.
Okay. Rest periods. So, as she's warming
up, she went from empty barbell to 40 to
50. We haven't been timing. It's kind of
like however long it takes to put the
plates on and think about life for a
second and then go. But now as we're
getting heavier, we're going to start
increasing the rest period. So, this one
I'd say she's rested about 2 minutes and
she's probably ready to go. That's fine.
But now what I would like to do is start
intentionally timing the rest, and I
would say for the next sets it's going
to be like three-ish minutes. From 85 to
90, like three to four minutes. From 90
to 95, three and a half minutes, four
minutes. 95 to 100, minimum of four
minutes. Before we just go like don't
rush into it on four minutes on the dot,
we go, "Okay, let's start getting
ready." So,
85 kg, you're ready, and then we get the
timer out. Scaps hard. Scaps hard. Good.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> Scaps hard.
Good.
Very good.
How's it feeling for you? Yeah, good.
Feels good, actually. Great. Rest times
for women
and men
Yeah.
Now,
there is research to suggest that
females have a higher percentage of
slow-twitch muscle fibers than males.
So, what's the difference? So,
slow-twitch muscle fibers, I guess that
can be illustrated by marathon runners.
Those muscles are not very big, but they
last a lot longer and they recover a lot
quicker. Fast-twitch muscle fibers are a
lot larger, a lot stronger, but don't
last as long and take a lot longer to
recover.
So, when you're comparing that way and
say someone who's more slow-twitch
dominant um is not as big, is not as
strong, and can recover a lot quicker
than someone with fast-twitch dominance,
which is someone who's got larger
muscles, stronger, but takes longer to
recover. So, based on that you could say
a woman is smaller and takes longer to
recover.
Sorry, not as long to recover than a
man. So, you could say a woman can take
less time in between her sets. Uh and
that's what a lot of women come to me
with. However, I say I can't tell how
many fast-twitch or slow-twitch fibers
you have. All I can tell is how much
weight's on the bar. As you get stronger
and stronger, you need more and more
rest. So, I say
it's the weight on the bar that
determines how much rest you have. So,
with Maureen, I would say 95 kg Her next
weight's going to be 90 kg. That's quite
heavy. And I would say I don't care what
your fiber type makeup is. I can't even
tell what it is. So, therefore I'm not
going to worry about it. What I'm going
to worry about is how much weight you're
lifting, and then I'm going to say as
she gets heavier and heavier, those rest
periods are longer and longer. And let's
just say you get to 100 kg and we want
to go more, I'm going to give you longer
again.
So, from 95 to 100, if we get there, I'm
going to say four and a half minutes. If
we hit 100 and it's good,
it's no less than five minutes. And
that's the rules. Doesn't matter like
relative Relative to the body weight,
it's the absolute load. Of course, I
factor in the body weight of the
individual. However, it's the absolute
loads that determines. Like I'll tell
you now, my strongest bencher is Big
Vasa. He can bench press 290 kg. And he
takes 10 to 12 minutes between those
sets. And it's because it's 290 kg. Now,
if I had someone So, he weighs 160 when
he does that as well. However, if I had
another 160 kilo lifter that was only
benching 140,
I don't need to give them as much
rest. So, the size of the individual
isn't as important as the amount of
weight on the barbell. So, that's
something else that I like to say with a
lot of the women that I work with is in
general, it's true. They can typically
handle less rest periods and more
volume. And also, they respond very well
to smaller incremental increases between
the sets. So, right now we're up to 5%
jumps. We've got an airplane going over
us. I don't know if we're going to get
to the point where we need to reduce
that. I'm not sure. Usually not for me.
Yeah. So, Cuz I think it's a mental
thing for me as well. It's like this is
a good jump to just get that tick in the
box.
>> Yeah. So, it's also what the individuals
used to. So, if you're used to Some
people I've worked with some people that
take really really small jumps, and
that's how they've trained for ever.
With Maureen, this is the jumps that you
take. So, 5% jumps is the smallest jump
that you'll need
um to get to your top weight. But at the
same time,
no, there's no buts. So, if you get 100
and it looks like you got 102.5 in you,
I'm not going to put 102. I don't care.
Maybe you do care. No, [laughter] that's
okay. But the way But the way that I see
it is if you get 100 and it looks like
an RPE nine, I prefer to take that and
run. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? If
it looks like RPE eight and a half, I'm
going to make you go 105. I had this
chick that she came to me, she wanted to
get into strength training. She's a spin
class instructor.
>> Yeah. And she She's just started with
strength training, and I
that been there done that a lot of
times. I said, "I'm going to introduce
you to longer rest periods than you're
used to." And she said, "Okay, how long
is that going to be?" And I knew where I
was going with I knew what she was going
to say. So, I said to her, "Two to three
minutes between your top sets." And she
freaked out. She said, "What am I
supposed to do? I'm I'm going to cool
down." So, for me, I think two to three
minutes is actually a good introduction
to long rest periods between compound
sets. Between compound sets. And I said,
"How long do you normally rest between
sets?" 30 seconds. You know what she
said to me? [clears throat] Eight
seconds. Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, right? So, I said to her, "You're
going to hate my training." Yeah. Yeah,
and I I've been there done that. So, I
gave her shorter rest periods that were
slightly longer than what she was used
to, even though it wasn't right. So, I
was giving her one to two minutes rest
when I thought that the ideal start
point was two to three, and I wanted to
get it to five minutes. That's what we
do. Because so many women don't like to
rest, and they skip their rest periods,
or they'll do like 30 seconds rest, or
they do random [__] between sets. So,
you've got to meet them halfway. Just
like building up to like a heavy four or
five, right? We build up to a longer
rest.
So,
doesn't matter what you think is
correct, it's what the individual
resonates with, and then gradually
having them accept and understand the
benefits of resting for a longer period.
So, I've worked with a lot like Hattie
Boydell. Do you know Hattie Boydell? So,
she's a fitness model and when I first
started working with her, I went
straight to 5-minute rest periods.
And she's gone from circuit style
training to get up on a fitness model or
bikini stage and I said, "You came to me
for strength training. Here's 5 minutes
rest because that's what you need."
Uh she told me about this a lot later,
but she was going to sack me as a coach.
Yeah, so she thought the only reason she
didn't sack me immediately is because
she thought like she she bit her tongue
and she's like, "I'm going to give it a
second chance." But I hated what we
doing what we were doing because 5
minutes rest was way too much. So,
that's like those are the lessons that
I've learned where I don't want someone
to hate the training.
>> No. So, it's it's gradually having them
understand the benefits of it. So, I
would have done better if I said to her
2 to 3 minutes rest and then and then as
we get heavier, gradually introduce
longer rest periods. I think it's
re-educating as well from cuz so many so
many women that I work with, they come
in and they're like, "Exercise means I'm
sweating, my heart rate is up, it's
super hard, I'm like exhausted." It's
like, "Okay, we re-educate from that
feeling to how hard was your set?" And
then it doesn't matter if you're resting
for longer and you feel like you've
cooled down because it's like, "How hard
was your set?" Not how exhausted do you
feel full stop. So, how exhausted you
feel is not an indication or how much
muscle soreness you have or whether you
vomit is not an indication of a good
session.
And that's why I love strength training
because we're using the weight on the
bar to tell us how good the session was,
not whether your heart rate's up or how
much you sweat. All right, 90 kilos
next.
Good.
Very good.
>> [sighs]
>> Let's get that upper back right. Let's
get it squeeze it in. Good. Good.
On your breath.
Yeah.
Mhm.
100s here. Yeah.
100s here. And then based on how you do
that,
we'll decide what goes next.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. Easy. Easy.
Easy.
Now,
the question for you, well, first
question, how did that feel for you?
Felt good. Yeah, looked great.
>> good. Okay. I think that was definitely
more in the tank. Now, the first thing
that I thought about was I'd like to see
that for two.
Okay.
You want to go heavier?
You're the boss. You I saw
disappointment in your eyes when I said
when I said I'll see that for two. She's
like,
There was a twitch.
There was a twitch. Do you reckon you'll
get 105 if I put it on?
>> [gasps]
>> [__] I don't know. Yeah. I think,
honestly, there was more in the tank.
The option is either 100 for two
or 105 for one.
I think we should do 105. Yeah, no, I
already made it up, so yeah. Okay. It
doesn't matter what you think anymore.
>> Great.
That was excellent. So, the reason why I
said 100 for two is I know what my
thoughts were when we were coming into
this, which is always what happens, but
then I know to bite my tongue and not
change the plan.
I was like, "Should I tell her to go for
a second if it's there?" And it's like,
"No." is the answer. "No." is the
answer. You do not call out new
instructions mid-set. I don't want to
say a statistic, but I would definitely
say more than half the times when I do
that, they fail because it's like, "Hang
on a second. Don't [__] change the
plan on me now. I just psyched up for
that lift and that's what you asked for,
that's what you're getting." So, that's
why it was the first thing that was on
my mind, but now that we've done that,
there was absolutely more in the tank. I
would say that this is there if you do
it perfectly.
Okay? So, it's your job to just do it
perfectly. No pressure. No pressure.
Well, I'll tell you what happens now.
So, this is don't listen to me. I'm
talking to the audience. What often
happens when people go for these bigger
numbers is they get a little bit more
anxiety increases and then they go,
"Okay, this is a bigger weight, so I've
got to give a bigger effort and do
something different."
Don't do anything different. So, that's
a cue that I often give for my
high-level lifters when they're
approaching a really big set is like,
"Nothing different." So, that's what I
scream out when I'm in competition.
"Let's go, Maureen. Nothing
[clears throat] different. Same thing."
That's what you hear from me. Is Is that
what you tell yourself as well if you're
like going for a heavier weight?
Absolutely. Yeah, just do what I just
did. Do what I just did. Don't do
anything different. The reason
why we took so much time and effort to
master that position from 20 kg is
because we're not practicing to lift 20
kg. That's what we're practicing for.
So, the idea of the warm-up set isn't to
just get blood in the muscles or
anything like that or in the joints.
Yeah, that too, but it's also
to practice what we're going to be doing
here. How many times have you practiced
one? You've done this before, haven't
you? 100? 105? Uh once. Right. So, you
know, there you go. That's how many
times she's practiced 105 before. You
know what I mean? So, that's not a hell
of a lot of practice. So, it's all of
these sets every time you grab the
barbells an opportunity to practice. All
right? So, that's why every set, if you
have a look at this video and just
replay it and replay it, if we've got a
still cam, you're probably going to see
no difference. Yeah. The bar may have
slowed down as you got heavier and
heavier, but otherwise the technique's
been pretty damn perfect. So, therefore,
what's the cues?
Nothing different. Same thing.
>> On it. Except now we wait. I'm going to
give you 7 minutes. Some of you might
think that that's a long time. Now, I'm
going to go a little bit further into
this. I won't touch it.
I won't touch it.
Um I love that. I just got strict
instructions by the boss.
>> [laughter]
>> Don't
She said it with a smile, but I'll tell
you what she meant, don't you [__]
touch this.
Uh but she said, "You know, if it if it
gets slow, just just grind it for a
little bit." She said it in a very nice
sweet voice, but it meant, "Don't you
[__] touch that bar." 7 minutes.
Yeah, some of you at home might be
thinking, "7 minutes, that's so long."
Guess what happens in powerlifting
competition?
You have no choice how long you have
between sets. In fact,
there's probably about on average, let's
just say 10 lifters in your flight. And
if you're going to do a powerlifting
competition, you're not allowed to
decide when you go. The judges will call
your name when you're ready and that is
after every other lifter has had their
turn and if there's 10 lifters before
you,
I say on average it's about a minute per
lift. So, that's a 10-minute wait
between your sets. So, if you're
uncomfortable with a 7-minute rest,
well, then
you better quit that sport because 7
minutes is probably the least you're
going to take when you're in
powerlifting competition. Spoiler alert,
it doesn't make you weaker. When you're
lifting at that level, there's a lot of
adrenaline happening and it's actually
beneficial. I've had, you know,
50-minute rest between sets in
powerlifting competition before and
performed one rep maxes and my PBs in
competition.
Okay.
Tunes. Maureen's used to lifting without
tunes.
Is that right? So, that's that's what
we're going to do. So, the music, this
is how I like to do it at Base Gym is
it's up to whatever you're used to is to
not make any changes. You get your head
on and then you go in when you're ready.
Let's go. Same thing.
Perfect position. Perfect position.
Scaps hard. Scaps hard. Scaps hard.
>> [snorts]
[snorts]
>> I slowed it down too much on the way
down. Um I I think you did a lot of good
things.
I don't think it was that slow. Let's
look back.
I understand the frustration.
>> [sighs]
>> There's a loss of tension at the bottom.
>> Mhm.
Right?
Beautiful.
Perfection. So, if you notice, there's
no movement anywhere except for the main
acting joint, which is the elbows and
the shoulders. So, that's the only thing
that's moving. There's no excessive
driving of the heels down as she
presses, which is what I like to teach.
So, some people kind of they they bring
the bar down and then on the up phase,
they drive the heels down, which means
that they're not driving it down while
the bar is coming down, which means
they're loose when the barbell is coming
down and only tight when the bar is
coming up. Now, I say loose is weak,
tight is strong. That means your
eccentric portion, you are weak and
concentric portion, you are strong. I
want you to be strong on the eccentric
and strong on the concentric. So, in my
opinion, a good leg drive, you cannot
see. The body will stay rigid the whole
time. If I was to push her during that
set, she probably wouldn't move and
that's the objective. The only things
that are moving is what's responsible
for getting that barbell up. Okay. Yeah.
Let's try it again.
Really? Let's try it again.
Let's go.
You know what to do.
Scaps hard. Scaps hard. Scaps hard.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> Scaps.
Scaps.
YEAH. YEAH. [__] YEAH.
YES.
>> [laughter]
>> [__] EASY. YES.
OH, MAN. [__] yeah. We got it. That's a
great cue. Um
you know, that's excellent. Okay, so now
>> [sighs]
>> you know, your program was doubles on
95. Let's just do a set of two on 95.
All right. Okay, so that you can at
least tick that off and say,
"Yes, we were intentionally
um, you know, went off
off program, but with purpose." It was
worth it. Worth it because that's the
goal in competition is 105. And now 8
weeks out, we're there.
So, therefore, imagine
yeah, the confidence that you have going
into it next time. So, now you've got
even more confidence. Yeah, good. Do you
miss We may need to reset We may need to
reset those goals.
>> [laughter]
>> Well done. Thank you.
Yeah. Well done.
A [__]
I'm ruining the video now.
>> [sighs]
>> Thank you. Thank you.
You think it looked easy?
Damn.
All right. So, now the discussion is
should we pause more intentionally now?
Uh, the fact of it is this is not the
same as what I would do for say like a a
top set back down set. So, if I was to
do this as a top set back down set, I
wouldn't go from 105 to 95 and do
doubles. I would I would go from a That
was like a 9 and 1/2 RPE. So, I like
that 9 to 10 RPE. So, send it on the top
set, but then the back down sets, I
would go probably 85 Mhm.
and go
>> [clears throat]
>> you know, two to three reps. And that's
where So, it's like I would reduce the
intensity so much that we can start
thinking about things.
So, what we're doing now is 95 kg just
to say let's stick to the program.
Still heavy. But it's still heavy. And
if you do something like this where you
go off plan and go really really heavy,
>> [clears throat]
>> that's two attempts of a weight that's
your limit. So, you failed it and then
got it.
Is there an adrenaline dump? We don't
know, you know. So, sometimes that can
stimulate or you know, like engage your
nervous system and make you come back
stronger, but if I was to say, "This is
the session it's a top set back down
set." I'd probably go 85. And you know,
the more I'm talking, the more I'm
thinking maybe that's what we should do
actually. You're the boss. Yeah. Let's
do 85 kg and now the job's done. You're
at 105. Confidence is sky high. Now,
it's just about let's do the work that's
going to
ingrain the technique that's needed on
competition day. So, 85 kg, that's a
reduction of roughly 20%. This is where
you can think and you don't have to have
the aggression and the neural arousal to
go, "Fucking I need to get this up." So,
what you're going to do is think about
commands, which is going to be press.
So, that's I don't say pause or anything
like that. I'll give you the press call
and you have to wait and I'm going to
call it I'll try and be as strict as I
can, but not, you know, unfairly strict.
I'll see when the barbell's motionless
like it would be in a competition and
then we'll see how it goes. And if 85
for two looks easy, then we'll go up
again.
>> Okay. Good. So, let's go 85 for two.
What happens in competition for those
who haven't competed before, they would
say
"Bar is loaded for Maureen." So, that's
when they have the comp weight on and
that means she's free to come on. She's
not not free to She's got 60 seconds to
complete the lift. So, she'll come in in
her time, sit down and set up.
There's no more calls except for when we
unrack, they're going to say start and
then press, then rack. Okay, you ready?
Yep.
We're going to do two reps. Wait.
Start.
Press.
Wait. Start.
Excellent. Rack. Good.
Excellent.
Easy peasy.
What we might do is ramp it a little
bit. Okay, do another set. Okay. Um, so
those are the competition commands.
Start, press, rack. So, if you're
wanting to do your first powerlifting
competition, that's what you need to
understand. You can be as strong as you
want, but if you miss any of those
commands, you may as well have not even
done the lift because that's a red light
or sorry, yeah, red light and uh, the
lift is failed. So,
start. So, what happens is and this has
happened to me before. You get here, so
you unrack the weight. This is what the
spotter needs to understand and then the
spotter needs to get out of there. So,
I've had a spotter once, you can stand
here on the foot on the platform and the
ref said to me
nothing. I was waiting for the press to
say, "Start." And the ref goes, "Get off
the platform." I'm like, "Huh?"
And then the spotter took the leg off
the platform and then they go
"Start." I'm like, "What the hell was
that?" And my mind is gone under one RM
load and I missed the lift. So, that's
something that the unrack and needs to
understand is unrack and then if you
ever see me in competition, I'll go
>> [laughter]
>> Runners, I do a stupid run, stupid
waddle to get off as fast as I damn well
can.
And then they say, "Start."
When the bar's motionless, that's when
the ref will say, "Press."
Now, if they say press and the bar goes
like this
Do you see that movement? That's a
downward movement. That's a red light.
That's a failed lift. So, it's not
allowed to go from when they say press,
it's not allowed to go down anymore to
build momentum. Not that you did that,
I'm just saying that's things that we
need to look out for. Start.
Bring it down. When the bar's
motionless, press. Boom. Then you must
wait. So, something that people do when
they do their big PBs, they go
"Press. Yes, I got it."
Red light. The ref has to tell you to
rack the weight. And if you don't wait
till they say that, you get a red light.
So, those are the three four calls. Bar
loaded, you come in and sit down. Start.
That's after the unrack and the
um, spotter has run off. Press.
Rack.
So, let's go to
um,
87 and 1/2. Okay.
[__] sake.
I have to do my set.
I'm going to put on a song. Probably
something with Limp Bizkit.
Absolutely.
Or even one set.
Uh, I'm feeling [__]
>> [music]
>> I'll have a drink.
If Maureen was here
I would have just told everyone I did
it.
>> [laughter]
>> But but not
>> saw it. But not actually done it. So, I
had no choice. Hey Dan, I have a
question question like cuz you wound up
with really low reps and then you had
heaps of reps there. Yeah, exactly.
>> Tell us about that.
>> Yeah, so that's quite often what I do
because I'm already warm.
So, the warm up isn't always about
doing the same thing. And a lot of
people kind of if they have sets of
eight on their programs, they do eights
on every set.
>> [panting and sighs]
>> Sounds tiring. That's fatiguing.
The idea of warm up is to stimulate, not
annihilate, right? So, the idea is the
first warm up sets,
I did two sets of 10 on the first plate.
I'm warm then. And then it's about a
gradual reduction of reps
as the weights go higher. And then I get
to the point where I think it was like
um, 140 kg where it's just one rep, one
rep, one rep, one rep. So, I'm warm by
that point. And now it's just about
feeling the weight so that when I get to
the top set,
it's meant to be easy.
>> [sighs]
>> But it was far from easy.
It's a matter of whether I do that again
and the answer is no.
That was limit. I don't know if you saw
that last rep, but it was like not how
it should have been.
I think I overestimated today.
That's the low sleep.
Low sleep, big weekend.
Anyway, I got 200 for eight.
Let's see what the last reps look like.
Yeah. Yeah.
Maybe I would have got one more rep if I
switched on, but also maybe not. Damn,
I'm smashed. I'm going to leave it
there. And I'm going to do accessories
straight up on quad work. Yeah. That's
what it's for there, right? As well like
Exactly. So, what we just said is um,
a lot of the times when people are
warming up, everything looks great, but
then the body behaves slightly
differently as the weights go heavier
and heavier.
Something that I've noticed with
Maureen's bench press from day one with
is there is a sticking point off the
chest, which is
if we have a look at the first set,
that's where she failed. The second set
she only moved it an inch and a half and
I started cheering because I knew that
it was up.
And it wasn't even half of the lift
completed, but I was like celebrating
that early because I know that it was
up. That's the easy part for you.
So, I believe that a lot of the times
weakness off the chest isn't a muscular
weakness. It's a positional weakness and
it's a lack
of tension.
Right? So,
um, her first thing was um,
for her first set, she said
"I was too slow at the bottom." And I
said, "I don't think so actually. I
think it was too fast at the bottom. I
think a lot of the times when people
like it was not fast on on way down, but
like you try to um, you know, change
direction really quickly and and that's
a skill that needs to be done where you
need to maintain tension as that
happens. Tension, tension, which is why
people recommend not to do the heavy
pause where we turn off muscles and turn
them back on again because it is a skill
that we must learn. So, one
advantage of that pause is we're resting
our pushing muscles.
The disadvantage is we're turning off
our pushing muscles. Do you get it? So,
the skill is to be able to turn them
off, but maintain tension everywhere
else in the body.
So, what we've decided to do now is 85
for two with the strict pause.
That was super easy, but I'm not just
going to say, "Oh, therefore she knows
how to do it. We pack it up and go."
Now, we gradually
introduce more weight. So, set number
two is going to be 87.5 for two with
pauses like that and then we'll see what
90 kg Well, if that looks good, then we
go to 90 kg and do the same thing. Okay?
Bar loaded for more weight.
She has 60 seconds to achieve this
position.
>> [sighs]
>> Get those scaps in as hard as I can.
Drop those heels down as hard as you
can.
>> [sighs]
>> Wait for the start.
Start.
Press.
Wait. Start.
Wait. Rack.
Very good.
I wanted to rack it. I can see.
>> [laughter]
>> I can see.
And that's something where it's a habit.
You finish the lift and you get out of
your hands. Yeah, we're done. Can't do
that. You get red lighted.
That was good. Not all good.
When I'm un-racking for you,
your arms are still back here.
Okay? And that's not an indication of
your lack of awareness of where your
hands are in space. It's your shoulders
are not where that where I want them.
Drop your shoulders.
Okay? So, what is happening is as I'm
un-racking it for you, you're
not trusting me. So, you're engaging all
of those muscles prematurely. I want you
to relax those muscles and let me guide
the shoulders. Just keep guiding them
down and let them sink. Let them sink as
I'm holding as I'm releasing that bar in
your hands. And that's the
responsibility of the un-racker as well.
Okay? So, that's what we're going to try
and do on this next set. I don't know if
you're able to see it from that angle
where her arms were, but what I want is
for that barbell on the start position
to be in line with her shoulder.
And therefore,
the arm
needs to be perpendicular. Your arms
were slightly back. Okay? So, we're
majoring in the minors right now. That's
what it's about.
>> Either way, 90 kg next. So, whenever
someone is like in a bench press weak
off the chest or in a squat and a
deadlift weak off the floor, weak off
the bottom position,
it's usually not because the muscles are
weak, but because the lifter doesn't
have an understanding of how to maintain
tension. So, weakness off the floor is
you don't know how to take the slack out
of the bar in a deadlift. Um
and my favorite
accessories or supplementary lifts to
include to improve that is
a loss of tension is muscles switching
off. How do I switch those muscles back
on?
A couple of ways. One of them is just
slowing it down. So, going like slow
eccentrics.
Slow eccentrics, I talk about the myth
of going slow causing more hypertrophy.
That's not the tool that I use slow
eccentrics for. I use a slow eccentric
if someone doesn't know how to stay
tight. I slow them down. What that does
is it forces more of the muscles to be
engaged, which is an increase in
tension.
Another tool that I have is pauses. So,
we use the muscles to pause at that
exact spot. So, for the bench press, not
that type of pause because she's resting
on her chest. Something like a spoto
press, a paused spoto press, which is
where you bring the bar down and you
pause like a centimeter to an inch off
the chest. Pause it. So, you're forcing
your muscles to stay active. You can do
the same thing in a squat and you can do
the same thing in a deadlift. So,
they're three tools that I use a lot to
help the lifter understand how to
maintain tension in the hardest
positions of the lift. Pause spoto bench
press,
a paused squat where you're pausing in
the bottom position, and a paused
deficit deadlift.
I did two. That's the third. And a
paused deficit deadlift, they're my
three go-to exercises to teach a lifter
to maintain tension in the powerlifting
lifts. Now you know. So, you know all
the calls. You're not going to re-rack
it or anything. It's just wait for the
calls.
>> Yeah. Let's do it.
Scaps hard. Scaps hard. Scaps hard.
Allow me to bring it to you. Ready?
Scaps scaps scaps scaps scaps. Good.
Start.
Press.
Wait. Start.
Wait. Rack. Good job.
Nice work.
Okay.
You did all the right things. But
unfamiliarity.
So, when I un-racked it, I felt you just
go
Yeah. Yeah, but you did all the right
things. Yeah, so that was you going,
"Okay, this feels strangely a little bit
too low for me." Doesn't it? When when I
let go.
Yeah, cuz normally, but you let me get
there. I didn't know. Yeah, you did. I
can tell because there's no resistance.
It's like you're relaxed where you
should be relaxed. Your objective is to
receive the weight, which you did. That
was excellent. And I think that was kind
of limit.
Limit. So, now is your accessory
exercises. Do you have time for that?
Yeah. Yeah? So, here's some programming
tips for upper body that I absolutely
love. First exercise is achieving your
main objective. So, her main objective
is to get a good bench press. We start
with that. We put all of our energy into
that. Second exercise of the day is to
work on whatever we neglected in the
main movement. So, just then was
barbell. Quite often, you can just very
safely say, "Let's do dumbbells." And
we're going to hit some areas that I
neglected with that. So, with an arch,
we are reducing the range of motion by
doing two things. Chest up reduces range
of motion. Wide grip reduces range of
motion. Simply by going to dumbbells,
doesn't matter how high your chest is
up. You have to dodge your chest. And
also, you can't go wide with the
dumbbells, so it has to be close grip.
So, automatically, if you just go
barbell to dumbbell, you're ticking all
the boxes. But what we're doing in this
program is shoulder press, seated
dumbbell shoulder press. The weight that
you have here is pretty strong. You're
doing three sets of 10.
On the shoulder press? Yeah? Yeah.
Like 22 to 25. Yeah, that's pretty damn
good. Let's get it. Oh, not straight
away. You're allowed to have a couple of
minutes. And then you're going to be
super setting that with some back. Chest
supported rows. So, you do that with a
machine, right? Usually. We'll do some
dumbbells. Okay.
So, you're going like you're letting the
shape of the dumbbell dictate where you
go. You got to let your shoulder
position dictate where you go.
Yeah. Do you know what I mean? So,
you're going like this down to the
shoulder and the plate's kind of
touching the shoulder there. So, that's
like, "Okay, that's the finish point."
Don't worry about external. Worry about
internal. So, stretch the shoulder. See
my hand position? That's where I am.
That's the end range for the shoulder
stretch. Don't worry about where the
dumbbells are. That's where my hands
naturally want to sit. Do you get it?
So, so you're positioning the dumbbell
like that so it touches your shoulder.
Just go
as deep as your mobility allows. So, try
it again. Okay, now poke that chest
right up. Good. From there, drive. Good.
Control stretch.
Drive. Good. Control stretch. Drive.
Yeah, perfect. And drop. So, that's now
your shoulder position dictates
the bar path. Yeah. Right? Don't force a
bar path. That's what people do. They
force a bar path. No, just where the
shoulder wants to go. Okay? So,
put that down. That's good. And then we
go straight to the top weight, which you
said was 22. Yeah.
Oh, well. Not not immediately. Give
yourself a couple of minutes. Couple of
minutes.
Yeah, so this is secondary quadriceps.
Allows me to get a little bit more
volume.
Something that I'm learning a little bit
about is how long between sessions your
muscles start going backwards. And I've
always believed that quadriceps need
more stimulus than a lot of the other
muscle groups. So, upper body, I do my
chest and shoulders and delts and tries
two times per week. And a lot of people
only do quadriceps once per week. And
I've always thought whenever I don't do
squats twice a week, I don't at least do
some type of squat pattern. So, this I
consider a squat pattern. My megarexia
tells me my legs are getting skinnier,
but also it makes it harder for me to
progress in my squats. So, two times
some type of squat pattern. So, I call
as I said, I call this a squat pattern.
Two times per week minimum. And it
doesn't have to be two heavy sessions.
In fact, I recommend one heavy and one
light session. And today's the light
session.
Um and I think if anything,
Okay? Correct. Let's take gender out of
it. The lighter the lift, the higher the
frequency. Or the less the weaker the
lift, the higher the frequency. So, as
you get stronger, you're able to work
harder essentially, right? So, the more
advanced athletes know how to recruit
more of their muscles, which is why they
lift heavier weight, but it's also why
they need slightly more recovery. Right?
So, whenever I'm working with super
super strong lifters, it's less total
volume.
You know, and and I don't want to say
less frequency. I still think that two
times per week for everyone is the
optimal. And for lighter lifters and
weaker lifters, sometimes even like
three lifts.
Three times a week. I'll tell you
something funny. My daughter's about to
come and I'm going to put her on while
she's on her school holidays a four time
a week squat program.
>> Damn. Yeah.
>> is she squatting, do you say? Her best
is 105 kg. And that's
It's really good for a
you know, for a 15-year-old. She weighs
53 kg. Wow. And um so, she's able to do
a 52 kg she's able to do a double body
weight squat at that age and
she only does that with two times a
week. So all she has is two times a week
and now she's got school holidays so I
said to her
time to do four times a week. So
>> [__] yeah. Yeah, so how's that for a
frequency? Now here's the next thing.
Four times a week for me I wouldn't be
able to recover
because it's too much, right? I'm
stronger than her. Not bragging or
anything but it's just how it is. But
actually when I was a beginner and more
intermediate I was doing these programs
as well and that fast tracked me doing
like four times a week squat programs
and even four times a week bench press
programs fast tracked me majorly.
You're an upper body specialist. How
many times are you doing bench per week?
>> Three times. Or upper body some type of
pressing. Three times per week which I
think is optimal. Now here's the thing.
I think it's optimal for
me as well. Yeah.
Bench press is not as strong as squats.
You know what I mean? Like the legs are
stronger than the upper body. So
wherever you can shift heavier loads
like I've got a guy Vasa 280 kg bencher
his two times a week max. However,
because he's so strong it's one heavy
and one super super light session.
That's the only way he progresses. But
yeah, I think three times a week for a
bench press is
>> to the variations too, right? We don't
do flat bench power lifting style three
times a week. We do three different
variations.
>> Yeah, so what are they? So we do
competition style day one. Day two is
mid grip flat foot.
>> Yeah.
And day three at the moment is military.
Yeah, right. Right. So I have a bias
towards all angles actually which is why
I love to go from the bench press to
what we're going to see now which is the
>> Dumbbell shoulder seated dumbbell
shoulder press. Have a look at the
technique here. I've made a slight
modification with Maureen to make her go
through a longer range of motion. Could
be harder.
We'll see. We'll find out.
>> Yeah, 22 kg let's do it. Full stretch,
punch.
Good.
Punch, perfect.
Punch three, excellent.
Punch four, good.
Five, nice. Come on. Punch six.
Punch seven, yes.
Punch eight, you got it. Easy. PUNCH
NINE, LAST ONE.
PUNCH UP, YEAH. BEAUTIFUL.
Lovely to watch. [__] it. Lovely to
watch. Okay, two more sets that now
that's um
not an ego lift. Bench press is an ego
lift. We do the arch, we do the things
to intentionally shorten the range of
motion so we can shift heavier loads.
These lifts are designed to complement
what we've done. So there's no cheating
here. I want range of motion over the
weight that we're lifting. Do you know
what I mean? Like we've already done the
weight thing. She did 105 damn
kilograms, amazing. So for now it's just
about hitting the ranges motion that
we've neglected. So that was perfect
technique. Two more sets.
And you're going to super set that with
a chest supported row. Chest supported
row. So that's something that you know
that I like to do opposing uh muscle
group super sets. So instead of just
doing a set of press like we did with
the bench press where we just did a
bench press and then waited we're going
to go bench press and then we're going
to wait two to three minutes, do the
rows. Sorry, not bench press shoulder
press you know what I mean? And then
back to the shoulder press again.
Beautiful. Yeah.
Yeah.
Leave it there, good.
Happy? Yeah, yeah.
It's a feel set. You're warm. Yeah. You
know?
Chest supported row. This is one of my
favorite row variations. Check out
what's happening with her back. She's
lifting her chest slightly so it's
thoracic extension that's happening
here. And the reason why she's doing
thoracic extension is because she wants
to be able to position her shoulder
blades back and down.
Right? So if her upper back stays
planted here she won't be able to pull
her shoulder blades back and down.
So that small piece of upper back
extension or peeling the chest off the
bench
is actually acceptable.
Very good.
Very good. Okay.
We did it.
Um yeah, two more sets of that. Good.
All right, that's our session done. I
hope you enjoyed that session. A bit of
a change of tone with our guests. Where
can we find you if we want to have a
look at you and everything that you do
with your women between 30 to 60? So
it's fitness unicorn basically on all
channels but mostly Instagram. Don't
give her a follow. That was how I like
to warm up everybody. This is the same
type of training man, woman. I don't
care what age you are. If you have the
ability to do those things that's how
we're going to warm up. Thank you
Maureen. High five.
>> Thank you. Thanks for having me.
>> My absolute pleasure and I'll
see you guys next time.
>> guys.